---
layout: post
title: "VMware at 90 Days"
summary: "After 90 days working at VMware, I've gained some interesting perspectives and learned more than I ever expected."
date: 2016-09-15 18:52
updated:
topic: work
tags: vmware personal meta
thumbnail: {{ image_path }}
listeningto: "Spiritualized – Ladies and Gentlemen We Are Floating in Space"
comments: true
---

It's somewhat surprising that I've been here 90 days already: the time has flown by. I still remember the ups and downs of the lengthy interview process, the difficult decision to relocate 1100+ miles away, and the incredible elation when I got "the call". My journey began over a decade ago, the first time I laid eyes on an enterprise datacenter, and has wound its way through a number of invaluable experiences to here, as an engineer for VMware. As I mention on my [about page](/ron-scott-adams), I'm an Inside Systems Engineer for Software Defined Storage. The long and short of it is that I'm a pre-sales consultant to customers considering VSAN or VVOLs. I talk to a lot of customers, ranging from global enterprises to mom and pop shops. I've found there are unique and important challenges in every business, and great people to talk to and help. It's been an exercise of drinking from the firehose, and I've loved every minute.

The first and foremost thing that has really been crystal clear since joining VMware is just how much people here care about what they're doing. From the time of my orientation to today, I've never seen so many people just enjoying the hell out of their job. I work out of our Austin, Texas office, so I see a wide range of VMware people, from the fresh-faced reps just starting their careers, to the seasoned senior managers who have seen it all and lived to tell about it. I saw hints of the passion and intellectual curiosity of VMware's people when I was a customer, but experiencing it from the inside is positively infectious. These are people that fought to get where they are, and the more involved they are in the product, the more they care.

A big part of my job is directly supporting the inside software defined storage team, and they're a definite living testimony to this enthusiasm. I've had the privilege of working alongside some great salespeople throughout my career, but I've never seen some so eager to really know and understand the product. I was really surprised how much VSAN knowledge the team had, and how capably they could talk to customers not just as a sales person, but a meaningful and valuable advisor. As a VMware customer, I had experienced how great the presales teams are, and how well they listened to the needs our company had and the unique challenges we faced. I see now this is woven into the culture and fabric of how VMware does business. I don't think it's too far of a reach to say the team I support is a really exceptional example of this.

I quickly found this to be a monstrous advantage: I get to sink *really* far down in the technical depths, because this team has the "VSAN 101" and "VSAN 201" covered for our customers. They can go beyond the slide decks to talk sizing, technical aspects, and how it fits into customers' datacenter strategies. I participate in these discussions to answer the more challenging technical questions (our customers ask really great questions... more on that in a moment). I also try to enable the team to understand the product and customers' datacenters better, so we have great discussions about "how much work is maintaining LUNS and storage fabric?", "what is the POC and evaluation process like to our customers?", and more. Beyond this, I get to wear a lot of hats and fulfill other engineering needs in our group, which is tons of fun as well.

The business unit I'm in includes some amazing superstars: [Duncan Epping](http://yellow-bricks.com), [Rawlinson Rivera](punchingclouds.com), and [John Nicholson](thenicholson.com), just to name three. There's several prolific bloggers among our numbers, and these people are on calls and collaborations with us and our customers every day, helping VMware create and deliver amazing storage and availability solutions. There's many unsung heroes as well, working nearly invisibly in the background to make sure VSAN, VVOLs, and all of our storage and availability software is the best it can be. I'd try to name them all, but you'd be here all day reading them. It's a big group and every time I come across another team member, I'm always refreshed by their unique perspective and fantastic knowledge base.

{% pullquote %}
That's another thing I learned coming to VMware: *it's pretty great to be the dumbest guy in the room sometimes*. If you throw enough of our fantastic engineers and architects on a call or in a quick [SocialCast](http://socialcast.com) discussion, I very quickly become the dumbest guy there by a factor of ten, and I love it. I've certainly worked with some really smart people throughout my career, and its always a pleasure to learn and grow. But the critical mass of brainpower here is awesome and humbling. There's a real danger as you advance in your career of entering an echo chamber. It's been very fulfilling to amass and share useful technical knowledge as I've progressed through my career. {" But as you learn more, and find yourself more frequently a subject matter expert and less an apprentice, you risk losing your edge. "}
{% end pullquote %}

This happens because you need the learning experience, you need the listening time, and you have to stretch your mind and try to keep up sometimes. I find it easy to forget how much more there is to know when you aren't out of your element enough. This isn't to say I wasn't challenged significantly in my previous positions. My longtime friend Bill Spry is a really avid security engineer, and knew how to keep me on my toes and learning at AFG. Nick Stergiopulos, our CTO, is incredibly qualified, out-certifying everyone in the group and providing really interesting challenges and fostering an environment where learning was genuinely encouraged and rewarded. At RoundTower, I worked with excellent architects like VCDX #79 Mike Marzotto, and one of the best SRM brains in the business, [Mike Ellis](https://twitter.com/v2mike). But VMware took this even further...

I thought I had a pretty solid grasp on VSAN's innards coming on board, after spending a couple years with it as a customer in the Fortune 500 space.  I had put in some quality time with VMware support and quality conversations with VSAN product management and architecture people. (Special thanks to Christos Karamanolis, Parag Patel, Christian Dickmann, and Gilbert Leal, who all took time to really care about our environment and VSAN efforts, despite their huge responsibilities within the company.) But nothing could have prepared me for the depths I would get exposed to upon joining VMware. My head is still ringing with just how much I've learned about VSAN alone these past three months, and perhaps more importantly, the vast amount more there's still to know. I feel a bit like David Bowman in 2001: it goes on forever, and it's full of stars.

This new knowledge has served to reaffirm my passion for VSAN and belief it truly is the best storage system available. I believe its place in the enterprise has never been more clear, and the future vision of VMware's Software Defined Datacenter has never been brighter. The passion one experiences when caught up in the momentum of VMware's amazing technology and culture is positively infectious.